Hi,

I'll try to quickly run you through some of the basic dicom concepts.
First, some definitions:

Definitions:
Study = collection of separate medical examinations for a certain
patient. A patient can have, in the same study, images from different
Modalities. All the images resulted during these examinations - often
referred to as IODs - will bear the same Study UID.
Usually you will find a study to contain images from one modality (MR,
CT, CR etc).

Series = Collection of images taken during one examination by ONE
modality. All images in a series share the same series instance uid
(and study instance UID, as pointed above) and are produced by one (and
only one) modality.

SOP Instance  = equates to a dicom IOD (or simply, image).

IOD = TLA for Information Object Definition - the representation of a
real-world piece of information.For example, an Image aquired by a CT
scanner and stored in dicom format will thus be a dicom IOD.

SOP Class = if you're dealing primarily with dicom IODs, it is useful
to think of the SOP Class in terms of an "image format".

Modality = In its broadest definition, modality is a provider of
information, be it an image or some other content (such as Structured
Reports).

Dataset = a collection of records that make up the dicom IOD. The
records that make the dataset are delimited by Tags, each tag
identifying a certain piece of information, as a patient name,
referring physician etc.


UIDS:

Study instance UID is unique for each study. Series UID is unique for
each Series. SOP Instance UID is unique for each Image.

Each Image (dicom IOD) will contain all three UIDs.

The relationship between the Study/Series/Instace is:

a STUDY HAS Multiple SERIES which HAVE Multiple SOP Instances (images).

Note that there is no phisical embodiment in dicom for Studies and
Series. Studies and series are "thin" concepts, usually having a
suggestive visual representation at application level only.

What you describe with your A,B,C,D example looks to me like, well, two
things:

1. the process of creating Key Object Selections (KOs). KOs are small
IODs that do not contain Pixel data, but are only used as "pointers" to
images of interest in a certain study. (a kind of a helper object)
A Key Object is placed in the Same Study as the image they reference
and within their dataset

2. the process of creating a GSPS object. A GSPS -Gray Scale
Presentation State - is a more complex "helper" object. Besides holding
information about the referenced image, It can contain image
annotations and various settings (window width, center). Workstations
use this information when displaying images image.
As KOs, GSPS objects are placed within the same study as the images
they reference, but in separate series,

Well, I hope this clears things a bit.

Razvan